---
layout: post
title: About
---

**About the Escaped Ads New Hampshire Digital Humanities Project:**
This project began after a summer of work on the *Recovering Black History* in Keene, New Hampshire Project. 
The Recovering Black History in Keene, New Hampshire Project is a citizen archivist project, in which volunteers in Cheshire County have been searching historical records for traces of Black Lives in the Keene, New Hampshire area. A team of graduate researchers have been building on the research already done by community researchers, using archival research to better understand the Black experience in Keene, New Hampshire during the 19th century (roughly 1780’s to 1920’s). 
So far, several key sources have been focused on. These include census records, newspapers, deeds and property records, town records and directories, probate records, naturalization records, early church records, court records, petitions, manuscript collections and other digitized materials about Keene, NH. 
In my personal research, work on newspapers has been especially fascinating. When tracing black lives of the nineteenth century, without an unlimited amount of time to read every single newspaper page by page, one has to be incredibly clever with the search terms used. As it often does with archival research, a pattern quickly emerged in the newspapers. I noticed that the New Hampshire sentinel was typically published in a very similar way from week to week. On the right hand side of the paper, typically on the third page, advertisements were published by subscribers of the paper. These advertisements ranged from selling property, a warning of a break-in, to lost property. Lost property, however, often referred to human beings who had “ranaway.” And, at times, these human beings were described by race. This was a “jackpot” in my research as I could find names and dates of black lives in New Hampshire. 
The “runaway” advertisements published in the [Keene Sentinel](https://keene.advantage-preservation.com/) are rich with information. Each one offers a date, the name of the subscriber posting the advertisement, and the name of the person that “ranaway.” They also typically offer a description of the type of relationship had with the subscriber, such as “indented apprentice” or “indented boy.” Sex, age, race, and descriptions are also often listed as well. Equally interesting is the reward amount listed for each individual. 
As I turned through pages and pages of the New Hampshire Sentinel, I found that it was not just laborers who were “running away.” There were actually people of many different backgrounds and positions “escaping” from something in early nineteenth century New Hampshire. Wives, paupers, sons, daughters, prisoners, and more “ranaway from,” “absconded from,” “eloped from,” and “left their home.” These various forms of escape, as described through a newspaper advertisement published by the very person most were “escaping from,” can reflect a lot about the concept of ownership over another human being, the value or worth attributed to that individual, and the agency and of individuals in New Hampshire during the early 1800’s. Recording the names of individuals, whose lives and stories have historically been less privileged in the archive than the names of those with the means to write and publish a runaway advertisement. Many of these are, ultimately, stories of resistance which deserve to be highlighted and further understood.